Question:(a) The foreign exchange (“forex”) market is the backbone of international trade and global investing. It is critical
to support imports and exports, which are necessary to gain access to resources and to create additional demand
for goods and services. Without the ability to trade in different currencies, companies’ prospects would be limited
and global economic growth would suffer.
What are the main functions of the foreign exchange market using examples of the Mauritian Market?[400 words] deadline = week 2

Answer:

Intro:

p1(Oman):The exchange rate of currencies is an important part of the forex market. It helps determine the price of one currency relative to another through demand and supply interaction. In Mauritius for example, the rate of exchange of the Mauritian Rupees is determined daily in the forex market against major currencies such as the USD and the EURO. The exchange rate is affected by factors such as demand and supply, tourism and investment. For example, during summer, the demand for the Mauritian Rupees on the forex market increases as there is an increase in tourism. Through continuous trading and investing, the forex market compiles all of these factors and ensures that the value of the Mauritian Rupees is a true reflection of the Mauritian Economic conditions.

p2(Oman):Trade facilitation is another key aspect of the how the forex market is beneficial to Mauritius. The presence of a liquid forex market in Mauritius allows importers to have readily available foreign currency which facilitates the payment of essential goods such as fuel, food and pharmaceutical products. It also helps exporters to quickly convert foreign currencies to the Mauritian Rupees to pay for Mauritian goods which bring foreign exchange to the country, and this contributes more towards increasing the rate of the Mauritian Rupees in the Forex market and increasing the stabilisation of the Mauritian Economy. Another way we benefit from this is that trade brings foreign currency into the country which helps in growing the economy which leads to increasing the value of our Mauritian Rupees.


P3:

p4:

p5:

p6:

p7:

p8:

conclusion:

[50 MARKS]

Question:(b)As the economic fallout spreads, retail banks find themselves juggling some big priorities that require concrete
steps to reposition now while also recalibrating for the future. In order to remain profitable, what according to
you are those concrete steps that retail banks should take with key examples for Mauritius Banks?[200 words] deadline = week 4 

Answer:

[25 MARKS]

Question:(c)The COVID-19 pandemic could be the most serious challenge to financial institutions in nearly a century.
Critically assess the challenges faced by the retail banks in the current context.[200 words] deadline = week 6

Answer:

[25 MARKS]


submission week = week 8
